# Home_Sales
The objective of this challenge is to utilize SparkSQL to analyze home sales data and derive key metrics, including but not limited to average sale price, total sales count, and average sale price per square foot.


## Data Source
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC. 


## Instructions:
•    A new repository  called Home_Sales was created, cloned and pushed to GitHub.
•    Inside Home_Sales repository, there is Home_Sales.ipynb file where all analysis and code is written.
•    The home_sales_revised.csv data is read into a Spark DataFrame.
•    A temporary table called home_sales is created.
•    Following questions were answered using SparkSQL:
1.    What is the average price for a four-bedroom house sold for each year? Round off answer to two decimal places.
2.    What is the average price of a home for each year the home was built, that has three bedrooms and three bathrooms? Round off answer to two decimal places.
3.    What is the average price of a home for each year the home was built, that has three bedrooms, three bathrooms, two floors, and is greater than or equal to 2,000 square feet? Round off answer to two decimal places.
4.    What is the average price of a home per "view" rating having an average home price greater than or equal to $350,000? Determine the run time for this query, and round off answer to two decimal places.

•    Cache temporary table home_sales and check if it is cached or not.
•    Using the cached data, run the last query that calculates the average price of a home per "view" rating having an average home price greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.
•    Partition by the "date_built" field on the formatted parquet home sales data.
•    Create a temporary table for the parquet data.
•    Run the last query that calculates the average price of a home per "view" rating having an average home price greater than or equal to $350,000. Determine the runtime and compare it to uncached runtime.
•    Uncache the home_sales temporary table.
•    Verify that the home_sales temporary table is uncached using PySpark.
•    Home_Sales.ipynb file downloaded and uploaded in "Home_Sales" GitHub repository.


### Prerequisites
-    Tools need to have installed before project:
•    Google Colab notebook
•    Import os
•    Install Spark and Java
•    Pyspark.sql
•    GitHub


